---
layout: page
#
# Content
#
subheadline: "Testing with containers"
title: "Minerva Highway MASA and Fountain JRC in LXD containers"
teaser: "ANIMA in a virtual box"
categories:
  - containers
tags:
  - containers
  - anima
  -
#
# Styling
#
---

Start with your Generic Ubuntu machine.  This demo uses an Amazon EC2
instance running 18.04 (Bionic).  Typically, this will be used with on
laptop or desktop development system where embedded system based pledges
will be connected.

    ubuntu@ip-172-30-0-190:~$ lxd init
    Would you like to use LXD clustering? (yes/no) [default=no]:
    Do you want to configure a new storage pool? (yes/no) [default=yes]:
    Name of the new storage pool [default=default]:
    Name of the storage backend to use (btrfs, dir, lvm) [default=btrfs]: dir
    Would you like to connect to a MAAS server? (yes/no) [default=no]:
    Would you like to create a new local network bridge? (yes/no) [default=yes]:
    What should the new bridge be called? [default=lxdbr0]:
    What IPv4 address should be used? (CIDR subnet notation, “auto” or “none”) [default=auto]:
    What IPv6 address should be used? (CIDR subnet notation, “auto” or “none”) [default=auto]: auto
    Would you like LXD to be available over the network? (yes/no) [default=no]:
    Would you like stale cached images to be updated automatically? (yes/no) [default=yes]
    Would you like a YAML "lxd init" preseed to be printed? (yes/no) [default=no]:

The images are stored at:
    https://minerva.sandelman.ca/qcow/

Unfortunately, lxc image improt does not seem want to want to import in a
single step from https resources. so it is necessary to download with wget
first:

    wget https://minerva.sandelman.ca/qcow/509228349075d52dfd67a6b828b6a5d513e6752fa27cc1f28b87a13898899b31.tar.gz
    lxc image import 509228349075d52dfd67a6b828b6a5d513e6752fa27cc1f28b87a13898899b31.tar.gz \
        --alias highway

    wget https://minerva.sandelman.ca/qcow/2889fadee648fc9cb940bfc49b6de634ff6a09a5860717575518b81061232851.tar.gz
    lxc image import 2889fadee648fc9cb940bfc49b6de634ff6a09a5860717575518b81061232851.tar.gz \
        --alias fountain

    ubuntu@ip-172-30-0-190:~$ lxc image list
    +----------+--------------+--------+------------------------------------+--------+----------+------------------------------+
    |  ALIAS   | FINGERPRINT  | PUBLIC |            DESCRIPTION             |  ARCH  |   SIZE   |         UPLOAD DATE          |
    +----------+--------------+--------+------------------------------------+--------+----------+------------------------------+
    | fountain | 509228349075 | no     | Ubuntu 18.04 LTS server (20181003) | x86_64 | 648.93MB | Oct 22, 2018 at 2:54am (UTC) |
    +----------+--------------+--------+------------------------------------+--------+----------+------------------------------+
    ubuntu@ip-172-30-0-190:~$ lxc launch fountain fountain0
    Creating the container

    ubuntu@ip-172-30-0-190:~$ lxc profile copy default lanprofile
    ubuntu@ip-172-30-0-190:~$ lxc profile device set lanprofile eth0 nictype macvlan
    ubuntu@ip-172-30-0-190:~$ lxc profile device set lanprofile eth0 parent eth0
    ubuntu@ip-172-30-0-190:~$ lxc launch -p lanprofile fountain fountain0

    ubuntu@ip-172-30-0-190:~$ lxc launch -p lanprofile highway highway0

At this point you will have two LXD containers one called fountain0, and one
called highway0.  Start with the highway0 container.

    lxc exec highway0 -- /bin/bash
    root@florean:~#

The instance is called florean after "florean.sandelman.ca".  You should
adjust the hostname and the network settings by editing the files:

    root@florean:~# vi /etc/hostname /etc/network/interfaces /etc/resolv.conf

Edit to suit, restart container or use ifdown/ifup to change settings.
The MASA will need a name that will be put into certificates that is
reachable from without your test network.  This can be hacked on the
Registrar using /etc/hosts, but better is to get your IT department to
allocate a name and put it into (internal) DNS.

Once you have a network configuration that you like and which is accessible
on your network by name to your registrar instances, you may wish to enable
ssh within the container.  This is not required, you can always enter the
container using bash (as root), or to go directly to the MASA (highway) user:

    % lxc exec highway -- su - highway
    highway@florean:/root$

To start ssh, you need to first install your ssh keys:

    % lxc exec highway -- su - highway
    highway@florean:/root$ vi ~/.ssh/authorized_keys

You may remove the ssh keys from mcr@ if you do not need/want remote support.

    % lxc exec highway -- /bin/bash
    root@florean:~# service ssh start

The rest of this guide assumes you have logged as the highway user either
via lxc exec, or via ssh.

The above instructions applies equally to the fountain container.

For details on configuring the MASA, see [Highway Configuration](/highway/configuration)





