---
layout: page
#
# Content
#
subheadline: "Running and upgrading to Fountain 2023-01"
title: "Minerva Fountain beta-customer configuration"
teaser: "Virtual Appliances"
categories:
  - appliances
tags:
  - fountain
#
# Styling
#
---

A new version of the Fountain Registrar Virtual Appliance has been posted to
    http://sns.cooperix.net/ova/minerva-fountain-20230126.ova

(Yes, on http, not https for now.  The files are big enough that I'm still finding the best place to distribute them)

These images do a number of things, and the will slowly get better.

What this one does:

1. boots image with mDNS "minerva-fountain"
2. login as root/root on the console, and change the password.  No root login on ssh with passwords.  If you need help, then keep my key in the root account.
3. IPv4 and IPv6.
4. initializes the database, and then creates a root CA, and then a few EE certificates for use by the Registrar for it's TLS.  And a subordinate CA for signing LDevID certificates.
5. It opens port 8443 to listen for BRSKI-EST connections.
6. It opens port 5683 (CoAPS) for Constrained BRSKI DTLS/COAP connections.
7. It includes a mechanism to do GRASP *AN\_join\_proxy* announcements as per RFC8994, although this is not enabled by default.
8. It creates some certificates for use by the PostgresQL bucardo replication system.

It is possible to use the bucardo setup to arrange to do a multi-master replication of the database.  This is not configured by default, but the intention is that this is used to do forklift upgrades of the image, while saving the data.

There are many issues to be resolved, which the [VirtualMachines](/virtualmachines) records.

This image can be used as part of scalable three-tier application framework.
It includes the Passenger and Apache front end, and the Postgres database backend.

After setting the root password, the Registrar is ready to operate as a promiscuous registrar.
