---
layout: page
# -*- markdown -*-
# Content
#
header: no
title: "Minerva Highway MASA configuration"
permalink: /highway/configuration/
#
# Styling
#
---

This assumes you are running the Highway MASA in a container, but if you are
running it as a full VM, then you will login via ssh.

Login:

    ssh highway@florean

or:

    lxc exec highway -- su highway

    cd current

List of tasks:

    rake -T | grep highway

When running rake comments, you may see an annoying warning:

    /home/highway/shared/bundle/ruby/2.5.0/gems/cow_proxy-0.2.0/lib/cow_proxy.rb:131:
    warning: constant ::Fixnum is deprecated

These are benign, although annoying.


rake highway:h0_setup_masa
==========================
summary: Do initial setup of sytem variables

This should be run once after installation.  It is interactive.
It first prints out the list of the current variables, and then will ask a
series of questions and store the result into a database table devoted to
configuration information.  Hitting enter will accept the previous value.

    highway@florean:~/current$ rake highway:h0_setup_masa
    hostname:  florean.sandelman.ca
    inventory_dir:  /home/highway/devices
    base_mac:  00-d0-E5-03-00-00
    masa_url:  https://florean.sandelman.ca
    Hostname for this instance(default florean.sandelman.ca):
    serialnumber: 128590126 BAhVOgtS...tWVzY=
    DN prefix for certificates(default ): /DC=ca/DC=sandelman

The first question is what the hostname for this instance will be.
The hostname will be embedded into the generated IDevID certificates using
the the URL which is shown.  That URL *MUST* be reachable by any BRSKI
Registrar that wishes to retrieve a voucher.  Enter the FQDN only which
will be in DNS (or /etc/hosts if testing).

The inventory_dir (directory) is a place where an inventory of devices will
be placed when using the "highway:inventory" task.  It should be a directory
pathname on this system.  If setting up a "store" as described in
[Jokeshop](/jokeshop), then this directory should be visible via a web
interface.  If it is being used as part of manufacturing process, then
putting it on some shared drive might make sense.

The base mac address query asks for a 48-bit EUI that will be used as the
base for creating new inventory, and for creating (device) serial-numbers in
the IDevID. This is as discussed in section 2.3.1 of
[draft-ietf-anima-bootstrapping-keyinfra-16](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-ietf-anima-bootstrapping-keyinfra-16).
Each time more inventory is created a variable will be added to this 6-byte
EUI-48.  The default value 00-d0-E5-xx-yy-zz is a legitimate OUI belonging to
a defunct company, using it for testing will not cause any conflicts.  The
OUI 10-00-00-xx-yy-zz was been reserved by the IEEE as a Private use OUI.

This process may be repeated to change any values which might be wrong.
Changing the OUI/EUI-48 base will not reset the counter, however.

The DN prefix which is asked for will be used as part of the Distinguished
Name that is put into the Subject field of the certificates which will be
generated.  Generally, this will be a series of DC= components. The hostname
provided will go into a CN= field, along with a string indicating the role
of the certificate being generated.

The serialnumber attribute is printed and stored, but it is used internally
to randomly set the X.509 serial-number of the certificate generated.

rake highway:h1_bootstrap_ca
==========================

This method should be run once (after h0) to generate a self-signed
certificate to be used to sign other certificates.  This certificate will
become the anchor certificate for any IDevID certificates created.  This
certificate will be stored at:

    highway@florean:~/current$ ls -l db/cert/vendor*
    total 3
    -rw-rw-r-- 1 highway highway 818 Nov  3 08:19 vendor_secp384r1.crt
    -rw------- 1 highway highway 288 Nov  3 08:15 vendor_secp384r1.key

If another keypair should be used, it can be placed in this location.
The environment variable $CERTDIR may also be changed to control where
private keys are kept.

rake highway:h2_bootstrap_masa
==========================

This method should be run once (after h1) to generate a certificate
(signed by the vendor CA certificate) which will be used to sign ownership
vouchers produced by the MASA.

    highway@florean:~/current$ ls -l db/cert/
    total 5
    -rw-rw-r-- 1 highway highway 672 Nov  3 08:55 masa_prime256v1.crt
    -rw------- 1 highway highway 227 Nov  3 08:55 masa_prime256v1.key
    -rw-rw-r-- 1 highway highway 818 Nov  3 08:19 vendor_secp384r1.crt
    -rw------- 1 highway highway 288 Nov  3 08:15 vendor_secp384r1.key

    highway@florean:~/current$ openssl x509 -in db/cert/masa_prime256v1.crt -text -noout
    Certificate:
    Data:
        Version: 3 (0x2)
        Serial Number: 1180464293 (0x465c74a5)
    Signature Algorithm: ecdsa-with-SHA256
        Issuer: DC = ca, DC = sandelman, CN = florean.sandelman.ca CA
        Validity
            Not Before: Nov  3 08:55:50 2018 GMT
            Not After : Nov  2 08:55:50 2020 GMT
        Subject: DC = ca, DC = sandelman, CN = florean.sandelman.ca MASA
        Subject Public Key Info:

As above, the location of the private key may be changed to a more
secure location with $CERTDIR.

rake highway:h3_bootstrap_mud
==========================

This method should be run once (after h1) to generate a certificate
(signed by the vendor CA certificate) which will be used to sign
Manufacturer Usage Descriptions (MUD) files.  This step is optional.

    highway@florean:~/current$ ls -l db/cert/
    total 6
    -rw-rw-r-- 1 highway highway 672 Nov  3 08:55 masa_prime256v1.crt
    -rw------- 1 highway highway 227 Nov  3 08:55 masa_prime256v1.key
    -rw-rw-r-- 1 highway highway 672 Nov  3 08:58 mud_prime256v1.crt
    -rw------- 1 highway highway 227 Nov  3 08:58 mud_prime256v1.key
    -rw-rw-r-- 1 highway highway 818 Nov  3 08:19 vendor_secp384r1.crt
    -rw------- 1 highway highway 288 Nov  3 08:15 vendor_secp384r1.key

As above, the location of the private key may be changed to a more
secure location with $CERTDIR.

rake highway:h4_masa_server_cert
==========================

This method should be run once (after h1) to generate a certificate
(signed by the vendor CA certificate) which will be used to answer
TLS (HTTPS) connections for MASA API operations.  This certificate
will need to be verifiable by any Registrar which needs to connect to
the MASA.

It may be more appropriate to get a certificate from a commerical entity (or
LetsEncrypt) for this use.  The DNS-01 challenge is appropriate doing this.

    highway@florean:~/current$ ls -l db/cert/
    total 9
    -rw-rw-r-- 1 highway highway 672 Nov  3 08:55 masa_prime256v1.crt
    -rw------- 1 highway highway 227 Nov  3 08:55 masa_prime256v1.key
    -rw-rw-r-- 1 highway highway 664 Nov  3 09:00 server_prime256v1.crt
    -rw------- 1 highway highway 227 Nov  3 09:00 server_prime256v1.key
    -rw-rw-r-- 1 highway highway 818 Nov  3 08:19 vendor_secp384r1.crt
    -rw------- 1 highway highway 288 Nov  3 08:15 vendor_secp384r1.key

As above, the location of the private key may be changed to a more
secure location with $CERTDIR.

rake highway:signmic
==========================

The signmic action will look for an entry in the device database with the
serial-number given by the argument EUI64= and will store the resulting
voucher back into the database.

This is only really useful for deep testing.

rake highway:inventory
==========================

The inventory mechanism will generate a number of devices into the database.
The default number of devices is 5, but an argument of "INVENTORY=xxx" would
ask for number devices.  A count of devices which have no ownership voucher
created (and therefore no owner) will be made, and if the number is below the
desired number of devices, then more devices are generated.

Devices are generated with an incrementing EUI-48 based serial number.
A private and public key pair are generated and placed into a temporary
directory named for the serial number.  The public key is signed by the CA
key, and this certificate is considered an 802.1AR IDevID certificate.

The results are compressed with zip, and placed into the directory configured
for inventory.

Inside the directory two other certificates are placed: the vendor CA
(which will sign the IDevID, which might be needed by the Pledge in
it's TLSClientCertificate chain), and also the MASA key which will be
needed by the Pledge to validate the resulting voucher.

    highway@florean:~/current$ rake highway:inventory
    creating 4 devices to refill inventory to 5
    Creating device 1 with mac 00-d0-e5-03-00-02
    Running: cd /home/highway/releases/20181103100425/db/devices && zip -r /home/highway/devices/product_00-D0-E5-03-00-02.zip 00-D0-E5-03-00-02
    adding: 00-D0-E5-03-00-02/ (stored 0%)
    adding: 00-D0-E5-03-00-02/key.pem (deflated 16%)
    adding: 00-D0-E5-03-00-02/device.crt (deflated 29%)
    adding: 00-D0-E5-03-00-02/masa.crt (deflated 26%)
    adding: 00-D0-E5-03-00-02/vendor.crt (deflated 27%)
    ....
    Running: cd /home/highway/releases/20181103100425/db/devices && zip -r /home/highway/devices/product_00-D0-E5-03-00-05.zip 00-D0-E5-03-00-05
    adding: 00-D0-E5-03-00-05/ (stored 0%)
    adding: 00-D0-E5-03-00-05/vendor.crt (deflated 27%)
    adding: 00-D0-E5-03-00-05/key.pem (deflated 15%)
    adding: 00-D0-E5-03-00-05/device.crt (deflated 30%)
    adding: 00-D0-E5-03-00-05/masa.crt (deflated 26%)

The ZIP files are placed in the directory that was specified in the h0 step:

    highway@florean:~/current$ ls -l ~/devices
    total 13
    -rw-rw-r-- 1 highway highway 2776 Nov  3 10:13 product_00-D0-E5-03-00-02.zip
    -rw-rw-r-- 1 highway highway 2773 Nov  3 10:13 product_00-D0-E5-03-00-03.zip
    -rw-rw-r-- 1 highway highway 2780 Nov  3 10:13 product_00-D0-E5-03-00-04.zip
    -rw-rw-r-- 1 highway highway 2773 Nov  3 10:13 product_00-D0-E5-03-00-05.zip
    drwxrwxr-x 2 highway highway    2 Nov  3 09:10 sold

rake highway:obsolete
==========================

A product may be marked as obsolete.  This marks the device entry as deleted,
which causes the inventory system to generate new "product".

    highway@florean:~/current$ rake highway:obsolete PRODUCTID=00-D0-E5-03-00-02
    Device 2 marked obsolete

Having marked a device as deleted, a new device will be created with the
inventory command:

    highway@florean:~/current$ rake highway:inventory
    creating 1 devices to refill inventory to 5
    Creating device 1 with mac 00-d0-e5-03-00-06
    Running: cd /home/highway/releases/20181103100425/db/devices && zip -r /home/highway/devices/product_00-D0-E5-03-00-06.zip 00-D0-E5-03-00-06
    adding: 00-D0-E5-03-00-06/ (stored 0%)
    adding: 00-D0-E5-03-00-06/vendor.crt (deflated 27%)
    adding: 00-D0-E5-03-00-06/key.pem (deflated 16%)
    adding: 00-D0-E5-03-00-06/device.crt (deflated 30%)
    adding: 00-D0-E5-03-00-06/masa.crt (deflated 26%)



rake highway:mud_json_sign
==========================

THis method takes an input MUD file (in JSON format), adds a "mud-signature"
entry to it, and then canoncalizes it and writes it out.  The signature is
calculated over the canonocalized result.

The MUD signature URL is calculated to be a relative URL.
The signature is written to the provided input file with .sig appended
(unless SIGFILE= is added)

The canonicalized MUD JSON is written to the input file with .json appended
(unless OUTFILE= is added).

(No example is provided yet)

rake highway:signvoucher
==========================

summary: Sign voucher for device EUI64= to OWNER_ID=xx, with optional
         NONCE=xx, EXPIRES=yy

This is option is not useful at this time, but is still in the list.



Running Highway MASA
--------------------

To start the MASA server, once it is configured:

    lxc exec highway -- su highway

    bin/server -D &

The -D will put a few debug message in the foreground, but the bulk of the
debug will be in a lot file.

    tail -f shared/log/production.log &

will show the entire log file.  This MASA server does not start automatically
when the container starts, although this can be configured.

A production load MASA server would use the passenger plugin to Apache to
scale better.  A high-capacity MASA server would make use of a three-tier
web framework (presentation-tier/load-balancer, application server-tier,
and database-tier) to do typical web scaling.  Setting up such a system is
not in the scope for this document, please contact Sandelman Software Works
for help setting such an environment up.

To test if the MASA is answering correctly, from another machine do:

    fountain@eeylops:~/fountain/current$ curl -k https://florean.sandelman.ca/version
    highway:
    Version: 0.9
    Revision: devel

One can also visit the /status and /status.json URLS:

    $ curl -k https://florean.sandelman.ca/status
    <!DOCTYPE html>
    ....

    $ curl -k https://florean.sandelman.ca/status.json; echo
    {"Devices":6,"Inventory":6,"Owners":0,"Vouchers":0,"Requests":0}


One can combine the instructions to start:

    lxc exec highway -- su highway -c /home/highway/bin/server









